Surface visibility is the prevailing visibility from the surface at manual stations or the visibility derived from sensors at automated stations.

RVR is reported whenever the station has RVR equipment and prevailing visibility is 1 sm or less, and/or the RVR for the designated instrument runway is 6,000 ft or less. Otherwise, the RVR group is omitted. RVR is coded in the following format: The initial R is code for runway and is followed by the runway number. When more than one runway is defined with the same runway number, a directional letter is coded on the end of the runway number. Next is a solidus (/) followed by the visual range in feet, and then FT completes the RVR report. For example, an RVR value for Runway 01L of 800 ft would be coded R01L/0800FT. Most other countries use meters.

Variable prevailing visibility sis coded in the format VIS vnvnvnvnvnVvxvxvxvxvx , where VIS is the remark identifier, vnvnvnvnvnvnvnvnvnvn is the lowest visibility evaluated, V denotes variability between two values, and vxvxvxvxvx is the highest visibility evaluated.

The prevailing wind direction is forecast for any speed greater than or equal to 7 kt. When the prevailing surface wind direction is variable (variations in wind direction of 30° or more), the forecast wind direction is encoded as VRBffKT . Two conditions where this can occur are very light winds and convective activity. Variable wind direction for very light winds must have a wind speed of 1 to 6 kt inclusive. For convective activity, the wind group may be encoded as VRBffGfmfmKT , where Gfmfm is the maximum expected wind gusts. VRB is not used in the non-convective LLWS group.

The initial time period and any subsequent FM groups include a visibility forecast in statute miles appended by the contraction SM. When the prevailing visibility is forecast to be less than or equal to 6 sm, one or more significant weather groups are included in the TAF. However, drifting dust (DRDU), drifting sand (DRSA), drifting snow (DRSN), shallow fog (MIFG), partial fog (PRFG), and patchy fog (BCFG) may be forecast with prevailing visibility greater than or equal to 7 sm.

If the visibility is not expected to be the same in different directions, prevailing visibility is used. When volcanic ash (VA) is forecast in the significant weather group, visibility is included in the forecast, even if it is unrestricted (P6SM). For example, an expected reduction of visibility to 10 sm by volcanic ash is encoded in the forecast as P6SM VA.

If the initial forecast period and subsequent FM groups are not forecast to have explicit significant weather, the significant weather group is omitted. NSW is not used in the initial forecast time period or FM groups. One or more significant weather group(s) is (are) included when the visibility is forecast to be 6 sm or less.

The exceptions are: volcanic ash (VA), low drifting dust (DRDU), low drifting sand (DRSA), low drifting snow (DRSN), shallow fog (MIFG), partial fog (PRFG), and patchy fog (BCFG). Obstructions to vision are only forecast when the prevailing visibility is less than 7 sm or, in the opinion of the forecaster, is considered operationally significant.

Volcanic ash (VA) is always forecast when expected. When VA is included in the significant weather group, visibility is included in the forecast as well, even if the visibility is unrestricted (P6SM). NSW is used in place of significant weather only in a temporary (TEMPO) group to indicate when significant weather (including in the vicinity (VC)) included in a previous subdivided group is expected to end.

The initial time period and any subsequent FM groups include a cloud or obscuration group, used as appropriate to indicate the cumulative amount (NsNsNs) of all cloud layers in ascending order and height (hshshs), to indicate vertical visibility (VVhshshs) into a surface-based obstructing medium, or to indicate a clear sky (SKC). All cloud layers and obscurations are considered opaque.

When LLWS conditions are expected, the non-convective LLWS code WS is included in the TAF as the last group (after cloud forecast). Once in the TAF, the WS group remains the prevailing condition until the next FM change group or the end of the TAF valid period if there are no subsequent FM groups. Forecasts of non-convective LLWS are not included in TEMPO or PROB groups.

Forecast change indicator groups are contractions that are used to subdivide the forecast period (24 hours for scheduled TAFs; less for amended or delayed forecasts) according to significant changes in the weather. The forecast change indicators FM, TEMPO, and PROB are used when a change in any or all of the forecast elements is expected.

The change group is used to indicate when prevailing conditions are expected to change significantly over a period of less than 1 hour. In these instances, the forecast is subdivided into time periods using the contraction FM, followed, without a space, by six digits, the first two of which indicate the day of the month and the final four indicate the time (in hours and minutes Z) the change is expected to occur. While the use of a four-digit time in whole hours (e.g., 2100Z) is acceptable, if a forecaster can predict changes and/or events with higher resolution, then more precise timing of the change to the minute will be indicated. All forecast elements following FMYYGGgg relate to the period of time from the indicated date and time (YYGGgg) to the end of the valid period of the terminal forecast, or to the next FM if the terminal forecast valid period is divided into additional periods.

The FM group will be followed by a complete description of the weather (i.e., self-contained), and all forecast conditions given before the FM group are superseded by those following the group. All elements of the TAF (e.g., surface wind, visibility, significant weather, clouds, obscurations, and when expected, non-convective LLWS) will be included in each FM group, regardless if they are forecast to change or not.

The first two digits (YY) are the day of the month for the start of the TEMPO. The next two digits (GG) are the starting hour (UTC). After the solidus (/), the next two digits (YeYe) are the ending day of the month, while the last two digits (GeGe) are the ending hour (UTC) of the TEMPO period.

Each TEMPO group is placed on a new line in the TAF. The TEMPO identifier is followed by a description of all the elements in which a temporary change is forecast. A previously forecast element that has not changed during the TEMPO period is understood to remain the same and will not be included in the TEMPO group. Only those weather elements forecast to temporarily change are included in the TEMPO group.

TEMPO groups will not include forecasts of either significant weather in the vicinity (VC) or non-convective LLWS.

The PROB30 group is the forecaster's assessment of probability of occurrence of the weather event that follows it. The first two digits (YY) are the day of the month for the start of the PROB30. The next two digits (GG) are the starting hour (UTC). After the solidus (/), the next two digits (YeYe) are the ending day of the month, while the last two digits (GeGe) are the ending hour (UTC) of the PROB30 period. PROB30 is the only PROB group used in NWS' TAFs.

Duration (INTMT, OCNL, CONS) and intensity using contractions LGT, MOD, SEV, or EXTRM. A range or variation of intensity with a hyphen (for example, MOD-SEV). If turbulence was not encountered, enter NEG. Optionally type CAT or CHOP. Altitude reported only if it differs from value reported in /FL. For ranges height values are separated with a hyphen. If lower or upper limits are not defined, BLO or ABV are used.
